<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter XIII</h2>
			<p>Hard as it is to build up a reputation in a cattle country, which has its own standards of criticism as everywhere else in the world, it is not difficult to lose that reputation. From tongue to tongue rolled the story of Cheerio’s weakness and confession at the branding corral, and that story grew like a rolling snowball in the telling, so that presently it would appear that he had confessed not merely to the most arrant cowardice at the front, but gross treachery to his country and his king.</p>
			<p>Every man at O Bar O was a war veteran. Few of them, it is true, had seen actual service at the front. Nevertheless, they had acquired the point of view of the man in the army who is quick to suspect and judge one he thinks has “funked.” The most jealous and hard in their judgment were they who were licked in by the long arm of conscription and who had “served” at the Canadian and English camps.</p>
			<p>When Cheerio, clean and refreshed by a dip in the Ghost River, came in late to the cook-car and cast a friendly glance about him, not even Hootmon or Pink-Eyed Jake looked up from their “feeding.” An ominous silence greeted him, and the tongues that were buzzing so loudly prior to his entrance were stuck into cheeks, while meaning glances and winks went along the benches, as his grey eyes swept the circle of faces.</p>
			<p>“Cheerio! Fellows!” said Cheerio gently, and fell to upon his dinner.</p>
			<p>Chum Lee slapped down the soup none too gently into his bowl and as he did so, the Chinaman said:</p>
			<p>“Sloup velly good for men got cold fleet! Eat him quick!”</p>
			<p>Bully Bill, his ear inclined to the moving mouth of Holy Smoke, arose solemnly in his place at the head of the long table, slouched down the line of men, came to where Cheerio was beginning on that hot soup that was good for “cold fleet,” and:</p>
			<p>“Hi you!” he growled, “pack down your grub P. D. Q. Then git to hello to the bunkhouse. Git your traps together. Report at the house for your pay. You’re fired!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
