<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h2>
			<p>The news fled like a prairie fire. From ranch to ranch, from the trading stores that dotted the foothill country, up to Banff, where P. D.‚Äôs packhorses were carrying the tourists into the supposed wilds of the Rocky Mountains and down to the cowtown of Cochrane. Here the news was received with consternation and amazement.</p>
			<p>P. D.‚Äôs name was a household word. His cattle, his grain, so ran the legend, had made this part of the country famous throughout the civilized world. And as for chess: The country people knew but vaguely the meaning of the word; but they did know at least that it was associated in some illustrious way with their distinguished neighbour, P. D. McPherson. He was a Chess Champion. ‚ÄúChampion‚Äù was a name to conjure with. It put P. D.‚Äôs name upon several occasions into the newspapers; in obscure parts where they printed riddles and conundrums and funny stuff for children, but also whenever P. D.‚Äôs exploits at the cattle fairs were summed up in the local press, and his picture appeared on the front page and he gave out interviews predicting the ruin of the country or its ascendancy above all other countries in the world, there was always a line included about P. D. being the Chess Champion of Western Canada and potential champion of all of Canada.</p>
			<p>Even the riders on the range and the crews at the road and lumber camps stopped each other to gossip about the incredulous news.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid you hear about P. D.?‚Äù one would inquire.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, what about him?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe got beat. Beat at chess.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúG‚Äôwan!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSure did.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou don‚Äôt say. Who done it? Betchu some Yank come on over from the States, huh?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot on your life. One of his own men done it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúG‚Äôwan! Who?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, that English fly, the Cheerio Duke they call him, the one they picked off the road in July‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe licked the pants off P. D.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou don‚Äôt say. <i>Him!</i> Why, he‚Äôs nothing but a tenderfoot. He don‚Äôt know nothing.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt he, though! That‚Äôs where you‚Äôre off your bat. What he don‚Äôt know, ain‚Äôt worth knowing, believe me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, you hear all sorts o‚Äô tales about him. Who is he, anyway?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDunno, and nobody else does. But one thing‚Äôs sure, he licked P. D. Licked him the first time they played, and he‚Äôs kept it up every night since. They‚Äôs a bet on. He‚Äôs to hold his job till P. D. licks him, and from the looks of things ‚Äôpears like he‚Äôs got a permanent job. And say‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI heard that the old man ses he ain‚Äôt goin‚Äô over to the States to play for championship there until he‚Äôs trimmed Cheerio chap.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI want to know! The Calgary <i>Blizzard</i> had a whole column ‚Äôbout him goin‚Äô over to the States to beat the Champion there.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, he‚Äôs got his hands full right here.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGuess I‚Äôll ride over and take a look-in at O Bar.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot a chance. Say, the old man‚Äôs sore as a dog. Ain‚Äôt lettin‚Äô a soul into the house. Has himself shut in and ain‚Äôt taking a bite of air and hardly any eats. Just gone plumb crazy on that chess game. It‚Äôs something like checkers, only it ain‚Äôt the same. You got to use your nut to play it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, here‚Äôs to old P. D. Hope he wins.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHere‚Äôs to him, as you say, but he ain‚Äôt got a chance. That Cheerio duke ain‚Äôt no amachoor.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Alberta, as all the world is beginning to know, is a gambler‚Äôs paradise. In this great boom land, where every day brings its new discoveries of gold, oil, coal, silver, salts, platinum and all the minerals this world of ours hides within herself, one tosses a penny on life itself. From all parts of the world come people whose lives and hopes are dependent upon games of chance, be they of the board, a pack of cards, the stock market, the oil fields or the great gamble of the land. Gambling is instinctive and intuitive in Alberta. A chance is taken on anything. The man in the city and the man upon the land throwing the dice of fate upon the soil are equally concerned in gambling.</p>
			<p>Cheerio‚Äôs proposition, therefore, and the way in which it was rumoured he continued to beat the veteran chess player appealed to the sporting sense of the country. It was not long before money was up and bets were on the players. News of the game swept down finally to Calgary, and a sporting editor dispatched a reporter upon the job. The reporter liked his assignment first rate, since it included a trip into the foothills and an indefinite leave of absence. He was not, however, received with open arms at O Bar O.</p>
			<p>Hilda, when he revealed the fact that he was a reporter, snapped the screen door closed, and only after the most diplomatic argument on the part of the newspaper man finally consented to announce his presence at O Bar O to her father.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJust tell him,‚Äù said the reporter, ‚Äúthat I only want a word or two from him, and I‚Äôll not print a line that he doesn‚Äôt approve of.‚Äù</p>
			<p>To this perfectly amicable message, P. D. (invisible but plainly heard shouting his explosive reply) returned:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, G‚ÅÝ‚ÄîD‚ÅÝ‚Äîit. I‚Äôll see no snooping, spying, G‚ÅÝ‚ÄîD‚ÅÝ‚Äîreporter. I‚Äôll have none of ‚Äôem on my place. I‚Äôll have ‚Äôem thrown off. This is no public place, and I‚Äôll have no G‚ÅÝ‚ÄîD‚ÅÝ‚Äîreporter trespassing upon my G‚ÅÝ‚ÄîD‚ÅÝ‚Äîprivacy.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Hilda, back at the screen door:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy father says he doesn‚Äôt want to see you, and if I were you, I‚Äôd beat it, because we‚Äôve got some pretty husky men on this place and you don‚Äôt look any too strong. There‚Äôs no telling what might happen to you, you know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWill you just ask your father, then, if he will give me, through you, a statement as to the chances of Canada winning the World Championship, either through him or his present opponent. What we are chiefly interested in‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat is to say, the readers of the Calgary <i>Blizzard</i>‚ÅÝ‚Äîis whether or not we are to have the Cup for Canada. It doesn‚Äôt matter whether <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMcPherson or his opponent gets it for us.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, doesn‚Äôt it, though!‚Äù Hilda could have hit him with pleasure. So it didn‚Äôt matter to the big, heartless public whether her Dad or that Englishman won or not.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, would you mind asking your father just that?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Hilda, inside:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDad, he wants to know whether either you or‚ÅÝ‚Äî<i>him</i>‚Äù (Hilda referred always to Cheerio as ‚Äúhim‚Äù or ‚Äúhe‚Äù) ‚Äúwill be going to Chicago for the tournament now.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou tell that bloody young news hound that he‚Äôll do well to clear off the place in a damn quick hurry, or we‚Äôll make it a damned sight hotter for him than the place he‚Äôs eventually headed for.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Hilda, back at screen door:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy father says for you to clear off the place, and I advise you to, too. You‚Äôve a nerve to come here to get stuff to print against my father in the paper. I‚Äôd just like to see you dare to print anything about us. It‚Äôs none of the newspapers‚Äô business, and my father will win, anyway.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThank you. I‚Äôm glad to have that line on the game. Did he win last night?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm not going to answer a single question. We don‚Äôt want a single thing to get in the papers.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut it‚Äôs already been in the paper.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHere you are‚ÅÝ‚Äîhalf a column story.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Hilda came out on to the porch, and seized and scanned the paper. Her face burned as she read, and the hot, angry tears arose in her eyes. How dared they publish for all the world to read that her old dad was being beaten each night by that Englishman? She whirled around on the inoffensive reporter.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho wrote that beastly stuff? It‚Äôs a damned shame. Just goes to show what your old newspapers are. Did you write it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, no,‚Äù hastily denied the reporter. ‚ÄúI was only assigned to the job to-day. That‚Äôs some outside stuff telephoned in, probably by one of your neighbours. I‚Äôm here to follow up‚ÅÝ‚Äîto get a special story, in fact. And look here, Miss McPherson‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou‚Äôre Miss McPherson, aren‚Äôt you?‚ÅÝ‚Äîwell, look here, it‚Äôs better for us to get the dope directly from yourselves than have to make it up. I‚Äôm here to get a story, and I‚Äôm going to get it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, let me tell you, you‚Äôll have some sweet time getting it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI intend to stay here till I do.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHere on our steps? I‚Äôd like to see you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, not exactly on the steps‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut on the job, at all events, I‚Äôll camp down the road by the river, and I can cover the story just as well from there.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Hilda threw him a look of withering scorn. Pushed the screen door open, and banged it, as well as the inside door, in the reporter‚Äôs face.</p>
			<p>He stood in thought a moment on the steps and then he jotted down:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBeautiful young daughter of P. D. McPherson on guard over father. Inherits famous disposition. Declares that her father will win. Intimates that he, not his hitherto victorious opponent, will go to Chicago‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>At this juncture, and while he was jotting down the notes anent Hilda McPherson, Cheerio came up the steps and crossed the verandah toward the front door, followed by Sandy, who, much to the bitter indignation of his sister, was once again the Englishman‚Äôs satellite and admirer.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGood evening,‚Äù said the reporter, cordially.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHello!‚Äù returned the unsuspicious Cheerio, and returned the grip of the newspaper man‚Äôs hand.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI wonder if you could give me some information about this Englishman who‚Äôs playing opposite <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝP. D. McPherson for the Western Championship and‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWh-wh-wh-wh-wh-what f-f-for?‚Äù stammered Cheerio, taken aback by the question.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm from the Calgary <i>Blizzard</i> and‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúG-g-g-good God!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf you know the man who‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGee! He‚Äôs him hisself!‚Äù chortled Sandy.</p>
			<p>Cheerio was punching the electric bell persistently. Hilda, hurrying at the summons, opened the door inside, cast a haughty look from the reporter to Cheerio, and then reluctantly unhooked the latch and let the latter in. She closed both doors again with a snap.</p>
			<p>Sandy, who had not followed Cheerio into the house, stood grinning up at the reporter, and the latter was seized with an inspiration. He returned the jeering stare of P. D.‚Äôs son with a man-to-man look of confidence. Nonchalantly, he brought forth a cigarette case and, extending it carelessly to Sandy, invited him to have one. Sandy, whose young lips had never touched the forbidden weed, helped himself with ostentatious carelessness and even accepted the light tendered from the other‚Äôs half finished stub.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIn a hurry?‚Äù asked the newspaper man.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNope.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSuppose we sit over here.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The reporter indicated the steps, and Sandy leaned back against the pillar with the cigarette alternately between his two fingers or between his young lips.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôre P. D. McPherson‚Äôs son, are you not?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYeh.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, what about this Englishman? I wonder if you can tell me something about him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSure,‚Äù said Sandy, ignoring a sudden quaking at the pit of his stomach, and blowing out an elaborate whiff of smoke. ‚ÄúSure, I c‚Äôn tell you all about him.‚Äù</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
